[Music]
but 20 minutes and I'm gonna try to
cover about ten years of works and
projects from the early test I was doing
and early experiments in 2005 and up to
now where I'm doing a lot of different
things from architectural projections
installations and smaller works in
galleries
it took me a few years to - to realize
why I was so interested in video
projection and and I think that sentence
cannot kind of summed it up what I like
about projection and projection mapping
and all the technique I use is just
using the light itself as a medium and
the space as a canvas as opposed to just
projecting on a rectangular screen so
all the works you're gonna you're gonna
see almost all kind of based on this
idea of using lights in space it I guess
it all started when I moved to Bristol
in the UK in 2004 I was doing graphic
design and then I had a lot of free time
in my hands so I started doing VJ in
clubs bought a projector off eBay and
started doing things I didn't really
know what vjing was so I kind of
improvised a lot my first VJ show was a
PowerPoint slide show which is a like
level 0 of interactive visuals or vjing
and a couple of years after doing
intensive DJing I was in my bedroom
doing some experiments and I realized
that with a single video projector
instead of projecting onto a screen I
could project that anything and use
anything three-dimensional as a as a
compass for projection and I was like
wow maybe I invented something this is
amazing I can turn a piece of paper into
something that emits light and
annihilator fine found that I didn't
really invent anything you probably know
the work of Michael named art that I
believe was presenting some work here
last year and he was already doing
projection mapping in in the 80s and so
filming a room a colored room and then
we projecting the color after pens mid
white and it's also a moving projection
so it's kind of interactive projection
mapping so yeah I really didn't invent
anything but anyway I didn't know it at
the time I was like so excited so I
spent hours and hours trying stuff
trying different materials different
combat sees paper is a is really easy to
to fold and to use and to play with so I
started making these collage and these
compositions out of just folded paper
and the more elements I would add the
more I realized I was fascinated about
geometry and patterns and that's
something you will also see no my my
work repetitive patterns and the
connection between patterns in nature is
something I'm always fascinated about I
started using different tools to do
real-time projection mapping so I
started coding at about the same time
2006 2007 I was using Adobe Flash at the
time which actually was really
convenient for projection mapping there
was no tool around and you could use
vectors you could do little ActionScript
stuff to to automate the production
process so this is a Adobe Flash and
then I did further experiments also by
always mixing traditional mediums and
drawings so in this case I did this kind
of improvised performance in a club
where I would paint the wall and then
projection maps on constantly when the
painting was done so that yeah this was
about 10 years ago and I still pretty
much do the same thing now triangles
paint and and drawings at the time I
realized they were other artists also
interested in going away from the
rectangular screen and together we
founded the anti VJ and we were very
much inspired by music labels such as
Rasta Newton and and we wanted to have a
a common group like a label with
different artists represented by the
label we started doing a lot of
installations building geometrical
escapes cultures doing a lot of
iterations and like testing things
basically we were not really sure what
we were doing but it was really exciting
to build wooden cubes and light them up
it was just almost like magic for us at
the time we thanks to the internet we
got a lot of exposure with our blog and
our website and we started doing a
large-scale projection I'm going to skip
through because we did so many of them
especially in 2008 2009 we were doing
about one project a month and again at
the beginning we were just experimenting
so we realized we could change the way
your building looks like we realize we
could remodel a building and move the
windows and change the balcony and we
could morph the architecture and change
the way the audience looks at the
architecture and it's almost a way to
change reality it's just the perception
of the reality but we yeah with a really
amazing feeling at the time we
experimented with well since became a
very cliche effects like we would make
things explode and fall down and we
would push the brakes and and with no
actual meaning in the first years but
then after a couple of gigs we realized
that maybe we could go further than the
explosion and under kind of easy effects
one of the key moment was when we got
commissioned to do a project on this
building which arguably looks horrible
it's it's not really sexy so when we got
the proposal we were like oh that's not
that's not so exciting but homotopy who
is also part of anti DJ directed these
projects and turn this this building
into some sort of fantastical clockwork
machine and and we realized how strong
how powerful that medium of light could
be
when you try to go if we still used FX
but from that point on we started
writing storyboards and asking ourselves
oh maybe we can write stories maybe we
can develop something with that with
that new medium at this project was our
first project in Asia in South Korea we
were commissioned for the opening of
this building which is part of new
Songdo City a city based on technology
with RFI these two open doors and I
scanning to enter your house and
everything you could you can't really do
anything in this in this city without an
ID or without technology so we we then
thought about the presence the
importance of the technology and the
code and the computer in the social
experience experience would have in the
city and we developed a piece about the
idea of what if there's a glitch in that
big computer that goes the city what if
you can't no longer access your your
home and and what happens if the if the
technology takes over basically so it
was a interesting for us at the time
because we went we would never get like
briefs or directions for the works
because people who commissioned us they
didn't really know what we were doing so
we had capital blush so it was really
amazing to have that freedom of doing
whatever we wanted for this project from
new tech we try to tell the story of
this that were called Lata Tekken where
there was a twin that were exactly the
same on the next pier that has been
demolition in the 80s so we we try to
reproach act on this tower a kind of
ghost image of the other Tower and we
try to kind of connect the architecture
and history with with lights we also
started working a lot with heritage and
castles and cathedrals and once again
when you have the opportunity to work
with such an excited converse then we
did pay a lot more attention to the
content the storyboard the story will
tell we realized it was an interesting
way to go
to history and tell the story of the
city of Quetta in this case which burned
down once and then the organ was
dismantled twice in its it story
so we try to we did a lot of research
and try to get inspired by the
architecture and the building itself for
the content this project alone was
directed by Homer tardy and Tomodachi
this is a silent presentation by the way
but the work of Tomas been amazing and
really made our projects much better
than they actually are like the sound
really brings that that kind of magical
element this is a permanent project so
if you ever go to Ross laughs in Poland
you can visit this place there would be
a thousand of things to say about this
we kind of got away from the classic
storyboard here and it was more romantic
he made in kind of an homage to sci-fi
movies and and this kind of brutal
architecture from Max Baer which was the
biggest dome today at the at the time it
was built in 1903 I believe and yeah we
had really we spent a week mapping every
each of these poles and yeah I should
probably have so many things to say but
this was amazing 70 meters high 40
meters high building I'm going to skip
through with anteye VJ we did a lot of
stage design and visuals for for
musicians and DJs and that was a very
exciting format as well but it's so much
work to produce a one hour long show
really requires months and months of
work so that's something we tend to do
less we did this project with Flying
Lotus back in 2011 and really exciting
projects and I was directing it and I
think I got too overwhelmed by the idea
of working with him so I wanted to use
lasers vmx sound reactive projection
mapping on the background saying
real-time stuff everything and it was a
little bit too much for the experience I
had at the time so it was okay but
I learned from that experience that
being too ambitious with only two months
of production can be a little tricky so
part of what I do now with my with my
studio in we based in Brussels by the
way and the main thing that we do is
installations this is a project I did in
Montreal in a dome part of this place
called Lestat's
and the really exciting display with a
360 projections and immersive sound and
this is the I guess the first time I
started really trying to develop
narratives around geometry architecture
and cosmos which are now my main my main
interest in in all the projects we do
also this project blueprints try to
explore this idea of the connection
between geometry and under cosmos and it
was the beginning of my obsession with
monoliths and it's going to be obvious
in the next few slides this is a bit
intense but these are like excerpts of
the of the piece where it goes from
two-dimensional patterns to the
emergence of structures and architecture
and update human architecture and cosmos
patterns and a tricky thing when you run
a studio is is to find a way to be
sustainable and to not only do one of
projects because when you do projection
mapping on a facade you're not going to
get twice the same facade so you have to
start the project work for three or four
months do the show which sometime lasts
for five minutes or ten minutes and then
you have to find the next building and
start over again so it was exciting in
the first few years but now I really
want to develop an idea on the longer
term and and ideally over the years so
this is why I started doing different
iterations of the same idea so blueprint
was first created as an installation and
it then we made this live performance at
sonar festival which is exactly the same
idea the same narratives but just with
the
different form this was another
iteration of blueprints this time in
again in a Cathedral and where I took
the same contents and I did some 3d
scans of this particular Cathedral in
Paris and then we use the floor and the
tiles as Kombat 4 for light as well I'm
skipping through a lot of things I hope
not too much and too unrelated but I
hope you will make sense by the end as
well so yeah again amazing to work in
such environments and we all started
with anti VJ in clubs all the way to to
cathedrals and it's interesting to see
especially in Europe many of the
cathedrals are not no longer being used
or then the religious beliefs not being
what they were a century ago now the
places have a second life and there are
cultural Institute's taking over or
getting access to the cathedrals and
being able to organize events in these
places which I found very interesting
again like my obsession for the for the
novice this time at a Basel Miami a
couple of years ago this is also this
kind of connects to my gallery worked
I'm going to show you next
again I'm exploring different patterns
and how we perceive reality and trying
to change the way this facade looks only
by using light and specific contrast and
content to just try to change the way
people perceive the city around them
that brings me to were drawings you
might have seen one behind you
I'm going to show you a couple of of the
of the pieces we've done lately I was
massively inspired by soli which
obviously who the first conceptual
artists that really really obsessed me I
can't explain why but I'm so obsessed by
all of his work and trying to collect
every single book and to understand
deeper what what what it meant and how
we develop these species I love the fact
that
in hit some of these wall drawings and
some of the instructions there's also a
sense of coding like some of the
conceptual pieces are just a set of
instructions as a weird leash in the
video signal is anything you can do here
nope
you get anything so that yeah you you
all know Soleil Waits and it's been a an
amazing inspiration over the years let's
see if okay my work is so visual that if
I don't have a visual element to to
describe things and I'm I'm going to be
a bit clueless alright
no any questions so far
Wow I'm not even sure where to start one
of the thing I love is the fact that the
work it the work itself is not
necessarily the physical aspect the
physical element it's more concept so
the idea of giving the work being a set
of instructions and the idea of the work
being the ability to reproduce the work
to move it across and to preserve it
over time is just amazing that's we
struggle in digital art for the result
these questions of how do you do the
conservation of the work how do you make
sure that the hardware and the software
will still be there in size 10 years
time I struggle to run some of my works
because they were meant to run on XP and
I no longer have an XP machine anyway
Sally with has this amazing thing his
work will last forever even after the
human mankind is gone because the
instructions are there and technically
they can be reproduced exactly like he
wanted because he managed to to extract
the essence of his work and and to
document it in such a minim a
minimalistic way as well so yeah it's a
huge inspiration and
the fact that his work is some of his
work is instruction based as well
informs a lot of what creative coders do
now and how we try to to document and
and describe the work I think there's a
lot to learn from him and the other
question um I love the work of James
Turrell and obviously the just a
physical connection that that dies there
when you see his work and yeah it's
really hard to describe it's it's it's
very visual it's also intangible you you
you can take pictures that you can't
reproduce the artwork if you're not in
the room if you're not in the space and
you're that's that's also an amazing way
to solve the the question of copyrights
and some it's easy to reproduce some
some paintings and some drawings but you
Coralie will produce the gems to
relatives it's so much about the quality
of the light the quality of the the the
type of like light frequency you use
that there's something embodied in in
his work in his installations that I'm
really fascinated about I also struggle
to describe this work is so simple but
so complex at the same time it's such a
fine tuning of between the materials in
the space the ambient light all these
variables that he mastered over the
years to present us some time just to
room with the whole or just a room with
light and amazing
thank you no idea what happened I told
you when when when I have to use a
projector it goes wrong
presents Thank You Barry and Kay by the
way cool so yeah the world row wings
have been working on are very different
from the Sally with
is in the way that many of them are
figurative they represent nature they
represent topologies they also have this
in common that they are geometry based
like to generate this landscape I used
just a grid and created elevations and
all you see is generative I got the
inspiration from a trip to the Fujiyama
mounds and we did this residency three
years ago when I was actually asked to
show this other piece called a Fe Li
yoku the unpronounceable name and this
piece was created in 2010 during the
famous eruption that grounded all the
all the planes and we were asked to show
this work this piece so many times that
when we got offered the this resonance
in Japan really wanted to make a new
iteration of the work and kind of second
chapter where it's basically a drawing
with a marker pen on a wall and then
it's augmented with light and so really
simple visual elements but I wanted to
keep it minimal and simple and and then
try to develop the narratives it's
inspired by the story of kaguya-hime a
which is the oldest popular tale in
Japan from the it's from the 10th
century and that was the starting point
of this project it was the story of the
princess kaguya hemad and I gotta make
it shorter says Juliet my producer here
we go so I'm going to scroll through all
these iterations of wall drawings it's
also really fun to make something that
has physicality because we often get a
bunch of helpers and we spend three four
days in space just tracing lines that
have been projected by the video
projector so it's kind of nice to be
away from the computer from time to time
and and it really gets contemplative and
and almost hypnotized in when you do
something repetitive for a few days and
I like to think that
it gets you into these sort of trends
that maybe the installers of the solely
with school are might experience similar
moments this is kind of reverse mapping
it's kind of projection mapping for the
lazy because all the content is created
before I get on site and then the visual
element the real drawing is then applied
to the wall and it map it fits the
content so it's kind of reverse mapping
which is the opposite of a building
obviously because you can't really
change the building or I'm going to
score sue so this is a I also discovered
anima for this we around this time and I
I like the idea of playing around with
perception again and recreating space
when there is none so this is just a
corner of two walls obviously and then
with light I'm trying to make this kind
of low poly crystal pop out and and mess
around with perception and this brings
me to night the last wall drawing and
I'm going to show you this is Juliette
it was going to talk in a minute and
explain that the kind of how the studio
works and how and why we do these
projects this piece is called lamington
there were too many too much detail and
too many lines to try so we
experimenting with different materials
with printed paper with vinyl and other
things and this was presented in
brussels a few months ago and then again
the World Rowing is augmented by the
light but if the projector is off is if
there's no projection the piece is still
there and that's a common point in all
my works it's always a physical object
and a layer of lights that kind of tells
a story and develop narratives this was
the first iteration of pantheism the
pistes right behind you and i'm gonna
i'm going to make it show now the most
recent work i guess is the smaller
pieces the gallery works working with
artists actually
exciting the scale of it make it really
like any projection is really impressive
and really strong but there's so much
production to get to the point where you
can project on the building you need to
get technical team expensive projectors
etc etc so working on a much smaller
scale allowed me to develop the same
idea expects express the same questions
or all the similar things but with a lot
less projection at all so I've been
experimenting a lot with laser cutting
and this is a UV print on a LCD screen
where I'm exploring the same idea behind
pantheism and tracing the connections
between mountains rock and add another
scale the geometry of the cosmos I
realized that making making it it's hard
to go through all this in in a short
amount of time working in with galleries
also was an opportunity for me to try
different materials this is my first try
at making porcelain cubes you might
recognize some of the really early works
and I try to scale down the the geometry
and and and the sculpture to sign your
scale and these are porcelain cubes that
I'm projection mapping last summer we
had a chance to go to Japan again and do
this residency with a glass artist and
we spent two weeks with him
crafting little objects and he made
these pyramids out of glass that were
very interesting and confessed to
projects on and there's a projection on
glass we also had a go at how we could
use wood and engrave things in wood and
try to extract pattern from from wooden
blocks and we'd really love to develop
these ideas further but we have limited
access to machines and CNCs and we we
are planning on meeting with the
Autodesk at pr9 later on and I really
hope
we could we could do something with them
and a slightly bigger scale this is an
installation we did a couple of years
back for Barneys New York it's very rare
that we do commercial projects but this
was a collaboration with jay-z so I just
couldn't say no and it was a cast of
laughs so we could do anything there was
no products in the windows so that was
the exception and we did this project
with the help of Ken McDonald who helped
us design this structure and CNC then we
used it it's a just a CNC cut foam
structure covered with mirrors took us
days and days just to apply the mirrors
one by one um and yeah that brings me to
the upcoming projects the most recent
things these are just tests I'm not sure
where they're going but one of the
problem I have with projection mapping
is if you want to go big scale and if
you want to cover large areas obviously
you need a lot of video projectors and
they don't come cheap
and with the the the light of a laser
beam you have so much more power a
brightness condensed into a smaller
areas that you can you can with the
single dots you can light up at least
tunnel which is 100 meter long
so I'm experimenting with how can I map
the architectural elements with with
laser beams this is really simple but
what I love is the how yeah single dot
of light just brightens the world space
other experiments I wanted to do for
years it's projection onto water the
idea is simple but making it happen is
so difficult we tried with mist fog
falling falling droplets and and it was
a real challenge for me to find a good
balance between small atomized particles
but they would still need to fall down
to create this kind of layer for
projection I'm struggling at explaining
this per I guess visually the explains
better I also made this interactive so I
have a single simple tracking system
that allows me to connect the light
using space and and your body
this was the slightly larger in
experiment we did this is a nice
silhouette just down there eight meters
by eight meters and now it allows me to
develop it will allow me to develop the
content and to develop a couple of
projects and the problem before was the
scale and and yes so this is just all
just experiments but I'd like to explore
again the geometry of the cosmos and how
we as human relate to that type of scale
so we're looking for opportunities to to
develop this project further and we just
need a large space and and some time so
that's going to be our goal for the
upcoming months